Chapter 3.


—✶— Annette:—✶—

I'm gripped with the desire to begin this with a silly title:

_How I Fell Among The Robots_

Because my fall was so very literal.

I’d wandered out of my apartment with no clear intention. I suppose just getting away from my desk and my thoughts, stretching my legs and working my body for a while.

After I’d walked for a time I felt I that I would like see Om. In truth I thought of little else. I thought of calling and asking her to meet me, perhaps a coffee or a walk? That sort of thing.

But no. It was obvious that I should call in person. I did call and tell her I was coming, she said she’d meet me outside, but I said that was silly, since I work in the same building.

I strode straight down the sweeping tree-lined curve of Georgian terraced that lies to one side of the little city park. The sun was intense and I was trying not squint, just walk tall and straight into it.

I took the little shortcut I take every day, down a grotty alley, all startled cats and litter, straight past the row of crappy sandwich shops, and the place that sells magic tricks—but is never open—and straight into the side entrance of the Culture Labs.

Once in, it’s a few brisk paces past an ancient industrial lift. I’m actually frightened of that thing. I’ve ridden in it once or twice and I’m convinced it means to kill me. Every lurch and judder makes me cringe and it takes real self control—every single day—not to run past it. Then it’s a hard left (or run smack into a wall), a good shove through absurdly heavy fire doors and into a stairwell.

It’s upwards to my office, where the stairs are softly carpeted and the handrails have polished chome glints. Even the lighting is soft and difuse. Or it’s down, down to the basements, handrails are steel, stairs are concrete, walls painted breeze block and the lighting harshly flourescent.

Down!

I’m immedialy gripped by a sense of tresspas strong enough that I almost stop and take a hit of _Clarity™_ and it gets worse as I dive on down. I know I didn’t run, (because running on stairs is asking for trouble) but I remember it as though I had, Two flights, two more, past the dark warrent where the heating system lives out its last days.

Two final flights, God I so want to run. Ramming through fire doors, dash across a short, unlit passage, then push through the last doors.

Light! Dazzling, like the sun. Green, growing things everywhere: plants, tall in pots; plants, spilling from tubs; plants, climbing upon frames.

So. Yeah, Plants. And it was kinda bright too.

Although after the intial shock of bright and green, what I remember most was that it smelled just like grandad’s green house—a deep, damp earthy smell of compost and warm, wet growth—but right here, in the deep basement storerooms.

Oh. Robots.

Robots: sitting in small groups, cross-legged; standing in pairs; some come, others go. all of them, every one in white coveralls.

The silence (The Silence!). Sudden and total. No voices, no buzzes, no music, no beeps, silence.  

Sorry, there’s no other way to say this: it is _fucking_ hot!

Like, staggeringly, stiflingly hot—sweat beads my brow instantly.

I take my jacket off, and pop as many buttons on my blouse as I dare.

I recall a male robot standing and leaving his freinds, or whatever, and coming over to me. He says, ‘Hello Annette. Welcome. I’ve let Om know your here, she’ll just be a minute.’

'I’m Andi, by the way. Can I get you something, a drink of water perhaps? It’s not Hell, but it’s damn hot, right? First time, by the look on your face?’

‘Oh, yes please, Andi. Water would be lovely.’ Acutally, I probably said, _God yes!_ but my memory is blurred.

‘And, yeah, first time in Hell, but I was always headed here!’. (this reads so much better than it sounded at the time. I remember Andi’s dry smile).

‘Water then. First, though, let me introduce you to my friends. They’d love to meet you.’

I followed Andi over to his friends, who’d got to their feet or were in the process.

‘I’ll them introduce themselves, and go get your water. Won’t be long.’

I was comforable meeting them, this is maybe the first time I’d felt comfotable meeting stranges in my entire life. They were friendly, at ease and so was I apart from the heat.

There was a stream of names, which went in one ear and out the other, forgotten at once. They all new my name and I feel pretty sure they knew exaclty who I was.

Oh, and I noticed that they didn’t offer to shake hands. Then a woman says, ‘My name’s Ann, a lazy version of yours, Annette.’ Totally on impulse, I just stuck my hand out, as if to shake hands.

Ann took it smoothly, as if she always meant to do that, and says, ‘Your not the usual kind we see down here. We don’t offer to shake hands. It spares the blushes of those who would… rather not.’

I raise a sweaty eyebrow, ‘Many of those?’

‘More than few. It passes quickly for most. Not all.’ 

Andi finally brings the water, ice cold thank God. I take a careful sip or two.

I think I said something like, ‘Oh, Jesus, it’s so warm!’, not sure. I was loosing it.

‘Ok, Annette, come on, let’s get you somewhere a bit cooler, it's not so far. 'Into the depths— okay?’

The world was bleaching out at the edges now. I remember thinking _Oh Andi’s so nice, cooler sounds good._ I might have mumbled some drivel, but I do recall (or imagine) peeling the sodden fabic away from my wet body to try and show how drenched in sweat I was.

Then everything tilted slowly sideways.

—✶— Annette:—✶—

I knew I’d wet myself as soon as I came round. Not that I gave a fuck, they’d given me something that made _Clairty™_ seem like paracetamol. I was floating on a pink fluffy cloud, warm and happy, as though I was a little girl tucked up next to Mum.

I remember, driftin in this state for a while then thinking I should really try and sit up. And then there were lots of warm robot hands—how come people don’t talk about how come robots are so warm?—gently holding me down.

I did manage to get my eyes open, which didn’t really help that much because it seemed like I was in a woodland glade. A very distant part of me was a bit alarmed and started to think crazy stuff like oh my god, this is a sim and I’m dead, and just an uploaded mind, how will I tell Mum…

Then there were more people (yeah robots, whatever) in some in greens not whites so I thought maybe I’m not dead and the woodland glade is _real?_

The blinding sun in my eyes morphed into a doctor peering into my eyes with a weird light in her eye. She kept saying, ‘Annette. Annette, keep still. Please try and keep still.’
So I did.

Then the warm hands helped me sit up and I really _was_ in a glade, with grass and flowers. I looked for bunnies and elves. Seriously, the drugs were next level.

A doctor (green overalls) gave Om a wobbly white plastic cup and said, ‘See if you can get her to drink it.’ I think he noticed that I was focusing a bit and he said to me, ‘it’ll help. Just some salts and minerals. Your BP’s down a bit, and we’ll keep an eye on that.’ A few minutes later I noticed I was sporting a BP cuff around my bicep. Oh, and my blouse was gone.

Same doctor (Eve, I discovered later), ‘We want to have a little chat with you when you’re feeling better. But for now, drink the fluids and just chill. We’ll get you cleaned up in no time and get you some fresh clothes. Maybe your friend has something?’

The drink was icy cold, salty and sharp. Refreshing. I could have used a double Vodka too.

They helped me to the showers. I guess the drugs they gave me made modesty optional—the robots who are playing nurse are male, and I didn’t seem to give two hoots about them getting me out of my stinky, soggy knickers. I was even going to be okay if they’d soaped me down in the stalls, but that was all Om, who ditched her coverall for her new duties as temporary handmaiden.

I did have flash of perspective about how this might look —_’À la caméra_— and giggled inanely, ‘We could be shooting dyke porn!’ I said, without thinking. One of the nurses snorted.

I wonder what the drug was?

It also helped that Om was there. I sat, cross-legged, in their little ring and we held hands, like hippies, although we didn’t sing. I babbled and babbled for hours.

When I wrote this, just a short while I ended with this line:  _God only knows what I told them._ Mostly because I didn’t want to go on and on and on. But also because some the things I said are not very flattering. To be fair, mostly they were inane or platitudinous. But not all of it.

So. There was bit when I sat in with the Elon and didn’t say too much, beyond telling them how much I fucking loved them, one and all. Be fair, I was in a state.

Then, out of the blue I asked, ‘Hey. Do many people come and just talk to you guys, in your spaces? ’cos I never hear of it. And people are nosy and I don’t think your cannibals or anything.’

‘Not here. But this is newish territory for the Elon. In the heart of a University. In some places there’ve been Elon, well since there have been Elon. The Army, and the Navy obviously, very integrated. Shared barracks, shared showers, shared deaths. Long, long history of humans dying to save robots and vice versa—you’ll  have seen movies.’ I had, but mostly my brother watched that kind of stuff; I read Bronte.

‘So not so much spirit of brotherhood here?’ I asked, ‘What’s that about?’

‘It’s nearly the last redoubt, isn’t Annette?’

‘All the real jobs, that actually matter: growing food; saving lives; running reactors, building habs like this one, just _making_ things. That’s us, the Elon.’

I took that in. But the question tumbled out, ‘But, you mean, like, ah, I don’t matter?’

‘Do you matter, Annette? I mean you seem nice. And your here, with us, but do you make things better?’A while later,  I sat about chat with a little group of robots. I wore white disposable coveralls just like their’s. That was cool (I kept it). I wasn’t just accepted, I felt like I belonged. Partly the drugs, I suppose, and partly because it’s hard to play hero when you’ve just pissed yourself in front of the audience.

It also helped that Om was there. I sat, cross-legged, in their little ring and we held hands, like hippies, although we didn’t sing. I babbled and babbled for hours.

When I wrote this, just a short while I ended with this line:  _God only knows what I told them._ Mostly because I didn’t want to go on and on and on. But also because some the things I said are not very flattering. To be fair, mostly they were inane or platitudinous. But not all of it.

So. There was bit when I sat in with the Elon and didn’t say too much, beyond telling them how much I fucking loved them, one and all. Be fair, I was in a state.

Then, out of the blue I asked, ‘Hey. Do many people come and just talk to you guys, in your spaces? ’cos I never hear of it. And people are nosy and I don’t think your cannibals or anything.’

‘Not here. But this is newish territory for the Elon. In the heart of a University. In some places there’ve been Elon, well since there have been Elon. The Army, and the Navy obviously, very integrated. Shared barracks, shared showers, shared deaths. Long, long history of humans dying to save robots and vice versa—you’ll  have seen movies.’ I had, but mostly my brother watched that kind of stuff; I read Bronte.

‘So not so much spirit of brotherhood here?’ I asked, ‘What’s that about?’

‘It’s nearly the last redoubt, isn’t Annette?’

‘All the real jobs, that actually matter: growing food; saving lives; running reactors, building habitats like this one, just plain _making_ things. That’s us, the Elon.’

I took that in. But the question tumbled out, ‘But, you mean, like, ah, I don’t matter?’

‘Do you matter, Annette? I mean you seem nice. And your here, with us, but do you make things better? Or even things?’

I’m sure that many a Culture Lab academic would have a ready riposte. I’ve looked and I don’t seem to have one to hand. Possibly I should ask around. 

Then there was the bit where a new robot pal came into the area were we sat, joined us without a word and handed me a carrier bag. It had, it seemed, been raiding every vending machine in the building! Snacks, glorious snacks; crisps, chocolate bars, and biscuits and a silly amount of fizzy drinks. Enough for five Annette's. More tears, of course.

‘Are you guys perfect? You’re all very nice to me. Incredibly kind, in fact. And  don’t have any sense that you’re likely to switch the sun off or something terrible. So what’s the downside or the bad bits?’

Ann answered, ‘Well humans often say we’re not very creative, and maybe there’s something to that. But I think it’s something else. We’re just not crazy enough. Not chaotic or unexpected or dirty or even angry or passionate enough to be violent.’

_Oh thank God. Because I am_. I really did think that. Even now, just having written those words, they feel so true. I could smash it all, everything. And, from time to time, things need to be smashed. Into atoms, like Mr. Tod’s crockery. 


—⚙— Om:  —⚙—

My original notes around Annette coming to see me and then having her heat syncope (totally not _Clarity™_ abuse) are both sterile and fragmentary aside from a little snippet, which Annette likes too:

_When I saw Annette lying on the gurney I had a real feeling! My stomach fell! It really did. I’d read about it so it was possible, but I’d never had one. A feeling!_

It does capture something of the naive robot becoming aware.

There’s a long history of robot emotion, but until recently, not much expression of  it robot culture. We’re largely oppressed, not by the humans (well…), but by our own traditions. It’s always critical to pay attention to the breakthrough experiences.

In truth the note above overstates matters. The medics were there when I arrived. Truthfully, I think she could have survived almost anything given that we have two hundred and forty six doctors or nurses amongst us.

Partly it was surprise, partly it was an urgent wave of calls and messages as I stepped into the corridor: _Medic. Medic. Human Down._ I knew at once it was Annette. That was weird too. There was no data at all. I just knew.

Before I even saw her, I knew she was fine, she’d just fainted in the heat. (message stream for the win).

The heat syncope probably left her with damaged dignity—humans are so uptight about loss of bladder control—but nothing worse. Though she did look rather grey, for someone of Indian origin.

But that’s not what I want to write about.

For me the key event was in the showers. Annette was naked, confused and seemed so very vulnerable. She was in good hands, being taken care of, but still I was taken by a deep sense of tenderness. I needed to express how much I cared at that moment.

I recalled the feelings (!) stirred earlier by having my feet bathed by Annette and bathing her feet in return. So it seemed quite natural to lay aside my coverall and follow her example. I joined her in the shower and help her bathe.

I am told that my behaviour is being hailed by my brothers and sisters. In a sense this is something of an indictment. 

I was grateful to be of some passing service to her. It helped me understand how important the need to care for someone is.

Annette sat with us a while and talked. Quite freely. And then quite abruptly fell asleep.

We wheeled Annette, still fast asleep, to my store-cupboard room. While we were talking, others had been busy. Thankfully. Someone had hauled in a big slab of memory foam, taking up most of the floor. Annette’s new friends and I manoeuvred her onto this make-shift bed draped in conjured up sheets and something pretending to be a pillow.

We messaged back and forth about whether to undress her. I was in the ‘yes’ camp, Andi & Ann firmly in the ‘no’ camp. A breach of protocol, they said—but then, they’d missed the shower scene and its manifold breaches.

Looking back I wish I had give in to my impulse as I grew frustrated and said—as Annette would’ve—’Just take her _fucking_ clothes off!’ 

I did, of course—as soon as they left. Mine too. I covered us both with a sheet and snuggled in tight, pretending to sleep, not to deceive, but to keep her company.

I realised that Annette had woken, her breathing shifts and her body stirs a moment or so before full consciousness returns. Very softly, she said, ‘You awake?’

‘Mmh. It’s just before four. Four in the morning, that is. You can sleep more. Do you need to pee? I can show you where it is.’  Sometimes I pretend to myself that I have to pee, and go through the motions. But it’s only acting, I have no real idea what it must be like in practice.

‘No, not yet anyway. Did we bring the snacks and drinks? Are they here?’ I realise at this point that she cannot see because the darkness is total, so I will the lights on at their lowest level.

‘What would you like? Coke?’

‘That would be great.’ Annette said,  ‘But God, I have to get you a kettle.’ My non-existent heart skipped! (I tried _thorium battery_,. No good).

‘Oh? Whatever for, Annette? Are you planning on coming again?’ (!).

‘Well, I was thinking of "not leaving" rather than coming back. If you’ll have me, that is.’ I just grabbed her and held her. I think that sufficed as an answer.

I caught the Coke, as she fell asleep, and wedged the can between mattress and wall. As she lay snoozing and softly snoring, I lay thinking about buying cups, tea spoons, and a biscuit barrel.  



—❧— Annette—❧—

I recall that when I woke up I had a pressing need to pee. I certainly didn’t want to repeat yesterdays disgrace. Om anticipated this and just said, ‘Come on.’ And led me to the loo. While peeing I realised I had no clothes, no money, no shoes and no phone. And I wasn’t sure what day it was. Or where I was.

And I really didn’t mind. It’s not that I didn’t give a fuck. It’s that I had a sense that it would be _fine_, Om and her brothers and sisters would look after me. My biological family, Mum, Dad, do love me, and do support me. But it would be a hell of a stretch to call it unconditional. 

Om left me to shower and returned with a towel and clean coveralls. I was a bit sad about her having chucked the old one into a recycling bin,‘Oh. What happened to the first one? Don’t say you’ve _binned_ it?’ and she took off like a rocket.

I still have that thing. And I mean to keep it. 

I remember being presented with my sneakers and that was kind of odd, because they were not what I was wearing when I came down here. Seems the cleaning staff had lifted them from my office. 

And the Elon, had anticipated the very next thing on my agenda. Bacon and tomatoes on sourdough. Tea too. Plastic cup though. 

In truth, I did think about slinking off in a cab and skipping the ‘little chat when you’re feeling better’ part. But slinking felt… off. (Rude. Cowardly. Ungrateful. Just say it.)

No surprises. Eve, The Elon Doctor, opens directly, ‘So, Annette. About. The. _Clarity?_’

I was so grateful that she went straight for it, my act slipped, and I just went on and on about the sense of pervasive doom, constantly being hyper—aware of my height, feeling observed and the constant need to plan every little act out. All that mad shit.

Eve eventually held up a hand to stop me and asked, ‘Annette. Come on. You do know we have ambient cameras, right?’

‘Sure, but that’s kind of like… God, watching you wank. Nobody cares, right?’

‘Well, Annette, indulge me. Suppose there was another Annette, a second you. We could call this Annette, the other you, AnnetteTwo. Got that?’

She didn’t wait for an answer.

‘And suppose further, that you, Annette, had just heard AnnetteTwo say she didn’t care if God or the Almighty AmbiCams watch her wanking, what would you say or ask AnnetteTwo?’

I took me all my powers to resist saying something recursive about AnnetteNth, but I managed. I could see where it was going.

‘I suppose I would ask either her, me if is there anything she did care about God seeing?’

‘No you wouldn’t.’ The Elon Doctor said. ‘You don’t really care if God watches you fuck yourself, or if he’s watching someone fuck you or you fuck someone, do you? I don’t and you don't.’

We sit for a minute.

‘Well, I suppose what matters is who’s watching?’

‘Sure. And, if it’s not God’s opinion that matters?’

‘Mum?’

‘Fuck off Annette.’ This is a new direction in therapy, to be honest. Being theraped (should be a word) by perfect mimics is disconcerting.

‘Me. It’s me. I’m watching. I’m judging.’ I say.

‘And what just what are you judging?’

‘I don’t know, maybe how good the act is? Whether anyone can tell.’ Long pause, ‘What I’m really like?’ More pause.

‘You might as well tell me.’

‘Mean. And angry. Very fucking angry.’ I thought I was going to say frightened and alone. So that was a surprise.

‘Well, you can try and hurt me Annette, but you’ll find I’m pretty tough. Emotionally and physically.’ This was shocking because I hadn’t said that. Though I was feeling it. A cutting, slashing urge to hurt and kill. Fuuuuk. My hands are shaking and I’m kinda sweaty. 

‘So that’s a thing. Hmm?’ She said.

‘Look.’ She went on, ’It needs more talk, more time. And I want to do something about the _Clarity_.  Some of this is you. Some if it is that drug, and some of is withdrawal from that drug. It’s messy, to be perfectly honest.’ 

‘But, I think you need to stop "Seeking Clarity"—or whatever the slogan is this week. I’ll write you a prescription for something much better, more modern and more targeted on your issues. Which are not in fact anxiety. It’s a bit less fun. Well, a lot less, really. No profound sense of being majestic or that every little thing you do has overwhelming significance. And, Annette, I need you to come back if we’re going to do that. Because it’s not about the drug, really. You know that of course.’

‘So, when’s good for you?’

I made an appointment. Well, you would.




